2-verilog-errors/readme.md, before:

Verilog Errors
==============

Each example here consists of a design and a test-bench.
The design and/or the test-bench contain common errors
or problems that need fixing. They are also opportunities
for you to develop your skills in terms of:

- Reading synthesisable Verilog
- Translating Verilog to circuit diagrams
- Reading and modifying test-benches
- Working with compilation and simulation
- Interpreting wave-forms

v1 - 8-bit incrementor
----------------------

The module `add4` (correctly) implements an 8-bit incrementor. The test-bench (incorrectly)
claims that it does not work.

Fix the test-bench.

Discussion:

- What is the underlying error?
    Underlying error was that in the testbench, the inputs and outputs were incorrectly declared as being 9 bits wide. 
- Does the compiler warn you about the problem?
    The compiler warned of this problem by saying that "Port 1 (x) of add_one expects 8 bits, got 9." And similar for port y.
- How will you avoid this type of error?
    Ensure that the width of the inputs and outputs declared in the testbench match the module tested.


v2 - 1-bit Flip-Flop
--------------------

The module `ff` is supposed to implement a 1-bit Flip-Flop. The test-bench
(correctly) claims that it does not work.

Fix the flip-flop.

Discussion:

- What does the waveform look like? Can you explain it?
- What is the underlying error?
- Does the compiler try to help you avoid this type of error?
- What happens if you use `always_ff` in the original (broken) FF, rather than `always`?

v3 - 1-bit Flip-Flop with clock-enable
-------------------------------------

The module `ff` is supposed to implement a 1-bit Flip-Flop with a clock-enable - as
with a normal flip-flop it only updates `q` at the rising edge of the clock,
but it also requires that `ce` is asserted. The test-bench (correctly) claims that
it does not work, but the test-bench itself is also not correct.

Fix the flip-flop and the test-bench.

Discussion:

- Did the compiler suggest there is a problem?
- The test-bench is correct that the FF does not work, but still contains an error. How can you
    detect errors in test-benches?
- Both the FF and bench-mark use examples of poor style. Try to recognise them, and the errors they might cause.
- The test-bench never modifies `clock_enable`. Why might that be a problem?

v4 - Or gate
------------

The module `or_gate.v` is supposed to implement an "or" gate, but the test-bench
(correctly) claims that it does not work.

Fix the or gate.

Discussion:

- Did the compiler suggest there is a problem?
- Does replacing `always` with `always_comb` change the way the compiler views it?
- Why is the module called `or_gate` rather than just `or`?
- How many different ways or styles of specifying the or gates logic can you come up with?
- Which style do you think is clearest and/or least error prone?

v5 - 4-bit combinatorial adder
------------------------------

The module `fadd` implements a 1-bit full-adder, which the module `add4` then
uses to build a 4-bit adder. The test-bench (correctly) indicates that the
4-bit adder does not work.

Fix the 4-bit adder.

Discussion:

- The adder is wrong due to an incorrect assumption about the semantics of buses (multi-wire signals) in Verilog. What is it?
- Assume you had to build a module `add32.v` which adds 32-bit values, but still had to rely on the `fadd` primitive. How might you do it?
- The test-bench for `add4.v` correctly identifies this problem through an exhaustive testing strategy. Would this strategy still work for `add32.v`?


v6 - 16-bit Hamming weight
--------------------------

The modules `hamming2`, `hamming4`, `hamming8`, and `hamming16` each calculate the Hamming weight of
2, 4, 8, or 16 bits. The Hamming weight is just a count of the number of set bits in the input - for
example, the hamming weight of `0101` is 2, `1110` is 3, and `1111` is 4. The programming style
uses recursive composition of modules to build the wider circuits out of the smaller circuits.

The test-bench claims that `hamming16` works, but this is incorrect - both the
circuit _and_ the test-bench contain errors.

Fix the test-bench, then fix the circuit.

Discussion:
- Both the test-bench and circuit were written by the same person. Why might this cause this type of error?
- The circuit was written before the test-bench. Why might this cause this type of error?
- The failure case is unlikely because it is rare. How might the test-bench be written to look for these cases?
- What is the advantage of this hierarchical composition style?
- How might you adapt the test-bench and test approach for a 64-bit hamming circuit?

v7 - Composite ALU
------------------

The module `add_sub_logic` constructs a 4 operation ALU around a single 16-bit adder (provided by `add16`) -
this is very similar to the construction of the bit-slice ALU in lectures, except the carry-chain is
included embedded in a Verilog multi-bit addition. In this case the design-under test is correct,
but the test-bench is wrong, though very close to being right.

Fix the test-bench.

Discussion:

- In this case the circuit and test-bench were developed independently, and it was initially unclear which one was correct. What
  could (or should) help resolve such situations?
- The case `op==3` in `add_sub_logic` has some edge-cases. What types of inputs (values of `a` and `b`) would be worth
    testing?
- The total set of possible inputs is very large. How might you create an "interesting" set of inputs that
    might trigger failure edge cases for all ops?

Commit message:

Fixed Problem 2
FF assignment was being triggered whenever the clock changed, fixed so that it was only triggered on posedge of clock.

2-verilog-errors/readme.md, after:

Verilog Errors
==============

Each example here consists of a design and a test-bench.
The design and/or the test-bench contain common errors
or problems that need fixing. They are also opportunities
for you to develop your skills in terms of:

- Reading synthesisable Verilog
- Translating Verilog to circuit diagrams
- Reading and modifying test-benches
- Working with compilation and simulation
- Interpreting wave-forms

v1 - 8-bit incrementor
----------------------

The module `add4` (correctly) implements an 8-bit incrementor. The test-bench (incorrectly)
claims that it does not work.

Fix the test-bench.

Discussion:

- What is the underlying error?
    Underlying error was that in the testbench, the inputs and outputs were incorrectly declared as being 9 bits wide. 
- Does the compiler warn you about the problem?
    The compiler warned of this problem by saying that "Port 1 (x) of add_one expects 8 bits, got 9." And similar for port y.
- How will you avoid this type of error?
    Ensure that the width of the inputs and outputs declared in the testbench match the module tested.


v2 - 1-bit Flip-Flop
--------------------

The module `ff` is supposed to implement a 1-bit Flip-Flop. The test-bench
(correctly) claims that it does not work.

Fix the flip-flop.

Discussion:

- What does the waveform look like? Can you explain it?
    The flipflop was changing at both postive clk edges and negative clock edges. 
- What is the underlying error?
    ff assignment was defined as `always@(clock)` which meant it was triggered whenever the clock changed. To fix this, it should be `always@(posedge clock)` 
- Does the compiler try to help you avoid this type of error?
    The compiler does not try to help avoid this error as there is no syntax error, this is purely detected through the use of assert statements in the testbench. 
- What happens if you use `always_ff` in the original (broken) FF, rather than `always`?
    When using `always_ff`, the compiler helps to detect the error, by detailing that "Synthesis requires the sensitivity list of an always_ff process to only be edge sensitive. clk is missing a pos/negedge." Thus adding the `posedge` will fix this problem as well.

v3 - 1-bit Flip-Flop with clock-enable
-------------------------------------

The module `ff` is supposed to implement a 1-bit Flip-Flop with a clock-enable - as
with a normal flip-flop it only updates `q` at the rising edge of the clock,
but it also requires that `ce` is asserted. The test-bench (correctly) claims that
it does not work, but the test-bench itself is also not correct.

Fix the flip-flop and the test-bench.

Discussion:

- Did the compiler suggest there is a problem?
- The test-bench is correct that the FF does not work, but still contains an error. How can you
    detect errors in test-benches?
- Both the FF and bench-mark use examples of poor style. Try to recognise them, and the errors they might cause.
- The test-bench never modifies `clock_enable`. Why might that be a problem?

v4 - Or gate
------------

The module `or_gate.v` is supposed to implement an "or" gate, but the test-bench
(correctly) claims that it does not work.

Fix the or gate.

Discussion:

- Did the compiler suggest there is a problem?
- Does replacing `always` with `always_comb` change the way the compiler views it?
- Why is the module called `or_gate` rather than just `or`?
- How many different ways or styles of specifying the or gates logic can you come up with?
- Which style do you think is clearest and/or least error prone?

v5 - 4-bit combinatorial adder
------------------------------

The module `fadd` implements a 1-bit full-adder, which the module `add4` then
uses to build a 4-bit adder. The test-bench (correctly) indicates that the
4-bit adder does not work.

Fix the 4-bit adder.

Discussion:

- The adder is wrong due to an incorrect assumption about the semantics of buses (multi-wire signals) in Verilog. What is it?
- Assume you had to build a module `add32.v` which adds 32-bit values, but still had to rely on the `fadd` primitive. How might you do it?
- The test-bench for `add4.v` correctly identifies this problem through an exhaustive testing strategy. Would this strategy still work for `add32.v`?


v6 - 16-bit Hamming weight
--------------------------

The modules `hamming2`, `hamming4`, `hamming8`, and `hamming16` each calculate the Hamming weight of
2, 4, 8, or 16 bits. The Hamming weight is just a count of the number of set bits in the input - for
example, the hamming weight of `0101` is 2, `1110` is 3, and `1111` is 4. The programming style
uses recursive composition of modules to build the wider circuits out of the smaller circuits.

The test-bench claims that `hamming16` works, but this is incorrect - both the
circuit _and_ the test-bench contain errors.

Fix the test-bench, then fix the circuit.

Discussion:
- Both the test-bench and circuit were written by the same person. Why might this cause this type of error?
- The circuit was written before the test-bench. Why might this cause this type of error?
- The failure case is unlikely because it is rare. How might the test-bench be written to look for these cases?
- What is the advantage of this hierarchical composition style?
- How might you adapt the test-bench and test approach for a 64-bit hamming circuit?

v7 - Composite ALU
------------------

The module `add_sub_logic` constructs a 4 operation ALU around a single 16-bit adder (provided by `add16`) -
this is very similar to the construction of the bit-slice ALU in lectures, except the carry-chain is
included embedded in a Verilog multi-bit addition. In this case the design-under test is correct,
but the test-bench is wrong, though very close to being right.

Fix the test-bench.

Discussion:

- In this case the circuit and test-bench were developed independently, and it was initially unclear which one was correct. What
  could (or should) help resolve such situations?
- The case `op==3` in `add_sub_logic` has some edge-cases. What types of inputs (values of `a` and `b`) would be worth
    testing?
- The total set of possible inputs is very large. How might you create an "interesting" set of inputs that
    might trigger failure edge cases for all ops?
